---

layout: post
title:  Building a Cyber Security Home Lab Part 1 - Introduction
description: Introduction to setting up a cyber security home lab for practice.
date: 30-08-2024
categories: [documentation]
tags: [cybersecurity,homelab]

image: 
    path: /assets/images/Home_lab.png
    alt: Cyber Security Home Lab Setup

---

Ready to level up your cybersecurity game? Whether you're just starting out or looking to refine your skills, having a dedicated home lab is essential for hands-on learning. A well-designed home lab allows you to experiment with security techniques and tools without putting your main systems at risk. Whether you're analyzing vulnerabilities, practicing incident response, or learning to deploy and manage security tools, a home lab will be the ultimate playground for developing and refining your skills. It's the perfect environment to explore, test, and master cybersecurity concepts safely and effectively.

This lab setup can be used to practice and enhance your capabilities in penetration testing, malware analysis, and security monitoring, all within a controlled environment. To create this lab, I will be using UTM Virtualization software on my Mac M1 Laptop.

### Overview of the Lab Setup

This lab setup will consist of multiple modules. Each module will cover a different component of the lab. These modules include:

1. Configuring pfSense (Router and Firewall)
2. Configuring penetration testing environment
3. Configuring Security Operations environment
4. Configuring IPS/IDS environment
5. Configuring Malware Analysis environment
6. Configuring a Windows Server controller and desktop

### Architecture of the Setup


### Why This Setup?

- **Isolation**: Each network segment is isolated to prevent the spread of malicious activities. For example, malware from the Malware Analysis Environment cannot affect machines in the Penetration Testing Environment or Security Operations Center (SOC) Environment.

- **Controlled Testing**: Vulnerable machines and specialized analysis tools are kept separate to test and analyze without risking your primary systems. This ensures that any security issues discovered in the Penetration Testing Environment do not impact the rest of the lab.

- **Simulated Environment**: The SOC Environment segment mimics a corporate security operations center, allowing you to practice and refine your skills in security monitoring, incident response, and log analysis.

- **Comprehensive Coverage**: This setup covers a broad spectrum of cybersecurity practices. It includes Penetration Testing, Security Operations, IDS/IPS, and Malware Analysis, providing a well-rounded environment to develop and test various cybersecurity skills and techniques.

